[DOC] Distributed tracing documentation (#2022)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/book/ref-tracing-environment-variables.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-setting-up-tracing-kafka-clients.adoc

[id='ref-tracing-environment-variables-{context}']
= Tracing environment variables

> Use these environment variables to configure a Jaeger tracer for Kafka client applications.

Reviewer: We should make clear that these are not our variables but Jaegers and they are subject to change by Jaeger and ideally add a link to their docs for the description in case they change.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-setting-up-tracing-kafka-clients.adoc

[id='ref-tracing-environment-variables-{context}']
= Tracing environment variables

Use these environment variables when configuring a Jaeger tracer for Kafka clients.

NOTE: The tracing environment variables are part of the Jaeger project and are subject to change. For the latest environment variables, see the https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-java/tree/master/jaeger-core#configuration-via-environment[Jaeger documentation^].

> // We should make clear that these are not our variables but Jaegers and they are subject to change by Jaeger and ideally add a link to their docs for the description in case they change.

Reviewer 2: In case it was missed

[%autowidth.stretch,cols="3*",options="header",stripes="none",separator=¦]
|===

¦Property
¦Required
¦Description

m¦JAEGER_SERVICE_NAME
¦Yes
¦The name of the Jaeger tracer service.

m¦JAEGER_AGENT_HOST
¦No
¦The hostname for communicating with the `jaeger-agent` through the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).

m¦JAEGER_AGENT_PORT
¦No
¦The port used for communicating with the `jaeger-agent` through UDP.

m¦JAEGER_ENDPOINT
¦No
¦The traces endpoint. Only define this variable if the client application will bypass the `jaeger-agent` and connect directly to the `jaeger-collector`.

m¦JAEGER_AUTH_TOKEN
¦No
¦The authentication token to send to the endpoint as a bearer token.

m¦JAEGER_USER
¦No
¦The username to send to the endpoint if using basic authentication.

m¦JAEGER_PASSWORD
¦No
¦The password to send to the endpoint if using basic authentication.

m¦JAEGER_PROPAGATION
¦No

> ¦A comma-separated list of formats to use for propagating the trace context. Defaults to the standard Jaeger format. Valid values are *jaeger* and *b3*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
¦A comma-separated list of formats to use for propagating the trace context. Defaults to the standard Jaeger format. Valid values are `jaeger` and `b3`.
```

m¦JAEGER_REPORTER_LOG_SPANS
¦No
¦Indicates whether the reporter should also log the spans.

m¦JAEGER_REPORTER_MAX_QUEUE_SIZE
¦No
¦The reporter's maximum queue size.

m¦JAEGER_REPORTER_FLUSH_INTERVAL
¦No

> ¦The reporter's flush interval, in ms.

Reviewer 2: what's a flush interval?

m¦JAEGER_SAMPLER_TYPE
¦No
¦The sampling strategy to use for client traces: Constant, Probabilistic, Rate Limiting, or Remote (the default type). 

To sample all traces, use the Constant sampling strategy with a parameter of 1.

For more information, see the https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.14/sampling/#client-sampling-configuration[Jaeger documentation^].

m¦JAEGER_SAMPLER_PARAM
¦No
¦The sampler parameter (number).

m¦JAEGER_SAMPLER_MANAGER_HOST_PORT
¦No

> ¦The host name and port to use if a Remote sampling strategy is selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
¦The hostname and port to use if a Remote sampling strategy is selected.
```
